{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}}
\fs24
\b Civicfix - Backend Connection & Image Upload Guide\b0\par
\par
This document explains in simple English how the frontend connects to the backend, which files to change, and how image insertion (upload) is handled and stored on the backend.\par
\par
\b 1. Overview\b0\par
- The frontend (React) communicates with the backend API at a base URL like: \i http://localhost:5000/api\i0 .\par
- Important endpoints:\par
  - \i POST /api/auth/login\i0  (login)\par
  - \i POST /api/auth/register\i0  (register)\par
  - \i GET/POST /api/issues\i0  (issues list/create)\par
  - \i GET/PUT/DELETE /api/issues/:id\i0  (single issue)\par
  - \i GET/POST /api/issues/:id/comments\i0  (comments)\par
  - \i POST /api/issues/:id/attachments\i0  (upload image)\par
  - \i GET /api/attachments/:id/signed-url\i0  (get signed URL for private S3 file)\par
\par
\b 2. Files to edit (frontend)\b0\par
- `S2S_FD/ADMIN/src/utils/mockData.ts` - this file contains API helper functions. Use the helpers:\par
  - `login(email, password)` and `register(name, email, password)` to authenticate. Helpers store a JWT token in localStorage.\par
  - `fetchIssues()` to get issues list.\par
  - `createIssue(data)` to create an issue (send JSON body).\par
  - `createComment(issueId, body)` to post a comment.\par
  - `uploadAttachment(issueId, file)` to upload an image file (multipart/form-data).\par
\par
- UI components to wire to the helpers:\par
  - `S2S_FD/ADMIN/src/components/AuthForm.tsx` - call `login` / `register` instead of mock login.\par
  - `S2S_FD/ADMIN/src/components/IssueTracker.tsx` - call `fetchIssues`, `createComment`.\par
  - `S2S_FD/ADMIN/src/components/IssueDetailModal.tsx` - add a file input and call `uploadAttachment(issueId, file)`.\par
  - `S2S_FD/ADMIN/src/components/IssueMap.tsx`, `CitizenProfile.tsx`, `AdminDashboard.tsx` - use `fetchIssues()` instead of in-file mock arrays.\par
\par
\b 3. Files to edit (backend)\b0\par
- `backend/src/index.js` - base server setup, CORS, static uploads, security middlewares, and Swagger docs.\par
- `backend/src/routes/auth.js` - register & login endpoints.\par
- `backend/src/routes/issues.js` - create/list/get/update/delete issues.\par
- `backend/src/routes/comments.js` - add/list comments.\par
- `backend/src/routes/attachments.js` - handles file uploads (multipart) and saves metadata.\par
- `backend/src/routes/attachmentSigned.js` - returns signed URLs for private S3 objects.\par
- `backend/src/models/Attachment.js` - Attachment model stores `url` and `s3Key` (if uploaded to S3).\par
\par
\b 4. How image upload works (basic steps)\b0\par
Frontend:\par
1) User selects an image file in the UI (for example a `<input type=\"file\" />`).\par
2) The component calls `uploadAttachment(issueId, file)` from `mockData.ts`.\par
3) `uploadAttachment` creates a `FormData()` object, appends the file as field `file`, and POSTs to `POST /api/issues/:id/attachments` with the Authorization header (Bearer token) if logged in.\par
\par
Backend:\par
1) Route `POST /api/issues/:id/attachments` is implemented in `backend/src/routes/attachments.js`.\par
2) Multer middleware parses the multipart form. Two modes:\par
   - Local disk mode (development): Multer stores the file in `backend/uploads/` and the URL returned is `/uploads/<filename>`.\par
   - S3 mode (production optional): If `USE_S3=true`, multer uses memory storage. The server uploads the buffer to S3 with a key like `timestamp-originalname`. The object is saved as private by default.\par
3) After saving (disk or S3), the server creates an `Attachment` document in MongoDB with fields:\par
   - `issueId` (reference)\par
   - `filename`\par
   - `url` (if S3, the server returns a temporary signed URL for immediate access)\par
   - `s3Key` (stored when using S3 so the server can generate new signed URLs later)\par
4) The server returns the attachment metadata to the frontend (JSON). The frontend can show the image using the returned `url`.\par
\par
\b 5. Private S3 and signed URLs (how to view private images)\b0\par
- Why signed URLs: Private S3 objects should not be public. Instead the server generates a temporary signed URL that allows limited-time GET access.\par
- Flow:\par
  1) After upload, `attachments` route stores the s3Key and returns a signed URL.\par
  2) Later, when frontend needs to display the image, it can use the signed URL returned earlier, or call `GET /api/attachments/:id/signed-url` to request a fresh signed URL.\par
  3) The server (authenticated) calls AWS SDK `getSignedUrlPromise('getObject', { Bucket, Key, Expires })` and returns the signed URL to the frontend.\par
\par
\b 6. Environment variables needed\b0\par
- `MONGODB_URI` - MongoDB connection string (you already added this).\par
- `JWT_SECRET` - secret for signing tokens.\par
- `PORT` - server port (default 5000).\par
- `UPLOAD_DIR` - local uploads folder (default `./uploads`).\par
- For S3 mode (optional):\par
  - `USE_S3=true`\par
  - `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_REGION`, `AWS_S3_BUCKET`, `SIGNED_URL_EXPIRES` (seconds)\par
\par
\b 7. How to test locally (quick steps)\b0\par
1) Start backend:\par
   - `cd backend` \par
   - `npm install` \par
   - `npm run dev` \par
2) Seed sample data (optional): `npm run seed` \par
3) Start frontend admin (set `REACT_APP_API_BASE=http://localhost:5000/api` in `.env`) and run `npm start` in `S2S_FD/ADMIN`.\par
4) Use Auth form to login (use seeded admin credentials from seed script), then open an issue detail and use the file input to upload an image.\par
5) Verify backend saved file:\par
   - For local disk: check `backend/uploads` for the saved filename and confirm `/uploads/<filename>` is accessible via browser.\par
   - For S3: call `GET /api/attachments/:id/signed-url` to get a fresh signed URL and open it in the browser.\par
\par
\b 8. Notes & troubleshooting (basic)\b0\par
- If file upload fails, check server logs. Common causes: missing `UPLOAD_DIR` permissions, multer errors, or missing AWS credentials.\par
- Ensure frontend sends Authorization header: `Authorization: Bearer <token>` for routes that require auth.\par
- If images do not show, inspect the returned `url` from the upload response. For private S3, the signed URL expires after a short time.\par
\par
\b 9. Summary (simple)\b0\par
- Frontend uses helper functions to call backend API.\par
- Image upload: frontend sends file to `POST /api/issues/:id/attachments` as `multipart/form-data`.\par
- Backend saves file (disk or S3), stores metadata in MongoDB, and returns a link or signed URL.\par
- To view private S3 images, frontend requests a signed URL from the server.\par
\par
If you want, I can also create a true `.docx` file and attach it, or convert this RTF to Word and push it to the repo. \par
}




